I have a 3D voxel game with cubed chunks sized 16x16x16, spanning infinitely in all 6 directions generated by 3D perlin noise. I'm having issues deciding how to
determine what is a sky light and what is indoors for lighting. Minecraft can get away with just checking from the top of the build height and march downwards
to check if any blocks are blocking the light. But I want light to come from all directions, but not end up in caves or buildings. I would prefer not to use
Minecraft's colum check, but in 6 directions because since the terrain is infinite, I would have to constantly recompute the lighting for the entire terrain
within render distance. Please come up with potential algorithms that could solve this problem, and list their pros and cons.

The world can be edited by the player, so we can't rely on terrain generation to inform the lighting algorithm.

The terrain system needs to be refactored to generate all of the data within renderdistance first, then run lighting algorithm. Further chunks are then added
to the lighting environment as the algorithm permits.

Idea 1:
At each air block neighboring a solid block, march in all 6 directions and terminate when solid block is hit.
For each air block march that hits a block that light amount gets diminished by that direction only.
For example, if theres an air block with grass to the left of it, and a march shoots off to the right and hits
another solid block, its light level is only diminished by that direction, if a sky light then hits it from below,
that gets added to the light level. Sky lights (air blocks with light level 15) are created when the march's
set block traversal limit is hit. The biggest caveat to this method is performance cost.


Idea 2:
Place light probes at regular grid intervals (e.g., every 4-8 blocks or chunk centers). For each probe, march outwards in 6 directions to compute an
"exposure factor" (average of directions open, up to the grid limit). Marches continue through air until either hitting a solid block, or it hits
the grid limit. If probe is inside solid block, immediately terminate. Probes act as 'cameras' in all directions, that check for sky access.
This algorithm is inspired by Dynamic Diffuse Global Illumination. seems to be the method with the least caveats.

Idea 3:
Use the naive method of doing Minecraft's sky light column flood fill but from all 6 directions starting at the edge of the render distance,
filling inwards. Except only uppdate vertex lighting on already generated chunks, instead of regenerating the mesh. The biggest caveat is
that when moving around, the lighting will constantly change as distant terrain occludes lighting differently.
